OK, to make the adjustment on the valve. This
engine has four valves two intake and two
exhaust for each cylinder. The intake on the
intake side of the engine and exhaust on the
exhaust side. The two valve use different
clearances. The exhaust valve using more clearance
because they have a tendency be hotter. In
order to check the clearance you select the
proper clearance from your feeler gage and
that should be between fifty one and fifty
seven, I believe, for the intake side and
then you slid that between the rocker arm
and the cam shaft and it should fit snugly.
Without any excess free play. So we're going
to slid it in there between the rocker arm
and the cam shaft and then we're going to
break the twelve millimeter nut free and the
valve is adjusted with a slot in the center
and while holding that retaining nut in place.
You turn clockwise to tighten the valve clearance
or counter clockwise to loosen it. We'll adjust
each one go down to our snug and then the
feeler gage fits snuggly. Once we've got it
adjusted correctly then we'll tighten down
that locking nut and then recheck it again
and we'll do that on each valve. You can break
them free with a twelve millimeter socket
it gets you a little better torque and with
an extension it you got better accessibility.
But when it comes time for tightening a twelve
millimeter box end wrench works best because
you have to have clearance to get to the adjustment
slot in the top while your holding the nut.
You could use an open end box wrench but it
has a tendency to slide off. Easier than a
box end and see it's difficult here to get
the right angle with the socket. Accessibility
can be a little difficult. So once I've broken
the retaining nut free then I'm going to adjust
this center till it becomes snug, tight. Checking
the feeler gage with each adjustment. You
just want to feel good drag or tension on
that like you've lightly sandwiched it between
the two and what I like to do is turn down
I'll back it off first counter clockwise and
then I'll turn down tightening clockwise.
Until it becomes snug and then I give it maybe
about fifteen to twenty degrees further and
I found that to work really well and then
while holding the center in place. You don't
want to turn the center piece while you're
tightening down the retaining nut cause that
changes the clearance and while your holding
in place. You can go ahead and tighten down
the retaining nut. After you've got it snug
then you need to recheck your clearance again
and to do this go ahead and pull the feeler
gage all the way out. Check the free play
again and then slide it back in and then make
sure that you don't have any debris that might
have got hung up underneath something during
your adjustment and if it fits real snugly
going back in. You got a good bit of drag
then that means that valve is properly adjusted.
So that concludes part one of adjusting valves.
Please watch our next segment on part two
of adjusting valve.